---
layout: post
title:      "A Programming Paradigm Shift"
date:       2019-11-13 17:55:56 +0000
permalink:  a_programming_paradigm_shift
---


My first introduction to computer programming was years ago, I had taken a night course in the Basic programming language. This was at a point in time, before internet and before GUI, so you are probably getting a pretty good idea of how old I could be. Anyway, it was strictly programming with CLI, or what was called the DOS prompt. When students were given a programming project, there was only one way to make the program work and if it did not work, you could literally spend hours trying to work out the bugs. At this point in history, there were no text editors, no spell checkers, no GUI, no Zoom, no Google and well, I think you get the picture. 

Many years passed, and I managed to stay involve in hardware side of the tech industry to a degree, but there was this lingering interest in programming still floundering somewhere in the dark recesses of my brain. I would occasional look into Java Script, HTML and PHP, because I had a huge interest in creating websites that just would not go away. In fact, I was somewhat proficient at creating small websites that required none of the object-oriented languages that make the web some much more fun and exciting. Applications like Adobe Dreamweaver simplified the HTML, so that just about anyone could create a simple website. But that wasn’t enough, I had finally come to a point where I just had to face up to the fact that I wanted to know more. I had this fear from long ago, that programming would cause me to have a nervous breakdown, pull out all my hair, throw the computer out the window, etc.. The time had come to face my fears and forge ahead in this quest to gain knowledge.

**Enter FlatIron**
Being somewhat of a news junkie, a couple of years ago I was watching one of the nationally syndicated business news channels, when suddenly one of the hosts was talking about the growing need for coders in the work force. Immediately, I tuned out the world around me and became laser focused on the guest speaker who just happened to mention an organization called Flatiron that was not only churning out lots of graduates but where helping these graduates obtain great paying jobs. In fact, Flatiron prides themselves on the basis that a very high percentage of their grads get great paying jobs. They post all the stats at their website for the world to see. Who can blame them, the stats are very impressive and a huge selling point. 

Where I am going with all this? First, I had to join Flatiron, with such impressive stats, my lingering fear of programming was starting to dissipate. I mean, with this many folks going through the program and getting great jobs, I had to give it a shot. As a student of software engineering, I was introduced to the object oriented language Ruby. I discovered that unlike the old Basic language of the Precambrian era, one could do little projects very easily in Ruby. There are tons of text editors that assist in the scripting with tons of features that help speed up the process. Oh, and with Ruby, one might find several ways to code the same project and accomplish the same results. Resources abound, from Flatiron’s own educational coaching, internet resources, GitHub, and even phone apps to help you practice your coding.  So, I guess one might ascertain at this point, the idea that my fear of programming has diminished considerably. More importantly, my love for coding is growing exponentially, and I have Flatiron to thank for grabbing me by the hand and helping me to cross that huge hurdle that was holding me back.

